<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
<!-- Code generated by terraform-docs. DO NOT EDIT. -->
# Application Gateway for Containers

This is the Terraform AVM (Azure Verified Modules) resource module for **Application Gateway for Containers** (`Microsoft.ServiceNetworking/trafficControllers`).

Application Gateway for Containers is an application (layer 7) load balancing and dynamic traffic management product for workloads running in a Kubernetes cluster. It extends Azure's Application Load Balancing portfolio and is a new offering under the Application Gateway product family.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> As the overall AVM framework is not GA (generally available) yet - the CI framework and target for AVM for Terraform Modules is **Terraform `~> 1.9`**

## Features

- Deploys an Application Gateway for Containers (Traffic Controller) resource using the AzAPI provider.
- Supports resource locks (`CanNotDelete`, `ReadOnly`).
- Supports role assignments on the Traffic Controller resource.
- Supports diagnostic settings for monitoring and logging.
- Supports tags for resource organization.
- Includes AVM telemetry integration.

## Usage

For a basic deployment, see the [default example](./examples/default/).

> For more information, see the [Azure Application Gateway for Containers documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-gateway/for-containers/overview).

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
## Requirements

The following requirements are needed by this module:

- <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) (>= 1.9, < 2.0)

- <a name="requirement_azapi"></a> [azapi](#requirement\_azapi) (~> 2.4)

- <a name="requirement_modtm"></a> [modtm](#requirement\_modtm) (~> 0.3)

- <a name="requirement_random"></a> [random](#requirement\_random) (~> 3.5)

## Resources

The following resources are used by this module:

- [azapi_resource.association](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource.diagnostic_setting](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource.frontend](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource.lock](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource.role_assignment](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource.security_policy](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [modtm_telemetry.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/azure/modtm/latest/docs/resources/telemetry) (resource)
- [random_uuid.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/random/latest/docs/resources/uuid) (resource)
- [azapi_client_config.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/data-sources/client_config) (data source)
- [azapi_client_config.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/data-sources/client_config) (data source)
- [modtm_module_source.telemetry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/azure/modtm/latest/docs/data-sources/module_source) (data source)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
## Required Inputs

The following input variables are required:

### <a name="input_location"></a> [location](#input\_location)

Description: Azure region where the resource should be deployed.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name)

Description: The name of the Application Gateway for Containers (Traffic Controller).

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_parent_id"></a> [parent\_id](#input\_parent\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the resource group in which to create this resource.

Type: `string`

## Optional Inputs

The following input variables are optional (have default values):

### <a name="input_associations"></a> [associations](#input\_associations)

Description: A map of associations to create on the Application Gateway for Containers. Associations link the Traffic Controller to a subnet. At this time, the number of associations is limited to 1.

- `name` - (Required) The name of the association.
- `subnet_resource_id` - (Required) The resource ID of the subnet to associate. The subnet must be delegated to `Microsoft.ServiceNetworking/trafficControllers`.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    name               = string
    subnet_resource_id = string
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_diagnostic_settings"></a> [diagnostic\_settings](#input\_diagnostic\_settings)

Description: A map of diagnostic settings to create on the Application Gateway for Containers resource. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys may be unknown at plan time.

- `name` - (Optional) The name of the diagnostic setting. One will be generated if not set, however this will not be unique if you want to create multiple diagnostic setting resources.
- `logs` - (Optional) A set of log settings. Each entry specifies a `category` or `category_group`, an `enabled` flag, and a `retention_policy`.
- `metrics` - (Optional) A set of metric settings. Each entry specifies a `category`, an `enabled` flag, and a `retention_policy`.
- `log_analytics_destination_type` - (Optional) The destination type for the diagnostic setting. Possible values are `Dedicated` and `AzureDiagnostics`. Defaults to `Dedicated`.
- `workspace_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the log analytics workspace to send logs and metrics to.
- `storage_account_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the storage account to send logs and metrics to.
- `event_hub_authorization_rule_resource_id` - (Optional) The resource ID of the event hub authorization rule to send logs and metrics to.
- `event_hub_name` - (Optional) The name of the event hub. If none is specified, the default event hub will be selected.
- `marketplace_partner_resource_id` - (Optional) The full ARM resource ID of the Marketplace resource to which you would like to send Diagnostic Logs.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    name = optional(string, null)
    logs = optional(set(object({
      category       = optional(string, null)
      category_group = optional(string, null)
      enabled        = optional(bool, true)
      retention_policy = optional(object({
        days    = optional(number, 0)
        enabled = optional(bool, false)
      }), {})
    })), [])
    metrics = optional(set(object({
      category = optional(string, null)
      enabled  = optional(bool, true)
      retention_policy = optional(object({
        days    = optional(number, 0)
        enabled = optional(bool, false)
      }), {})
    })), [])
    log_analytics_destination_type           = optional(string, "Dedicated")
    workspace_resource_id                    = optional(string, null)
    storage_account_resource_id              = optional(string, null)
    event_hub_authorization_rule_resource_id = optional(string, null)
    event_hub_name                           = optional(string, null)
    marketplace_partner_resource_id          = optional(string, null)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_enable_telemetry"></a> [enable\_telemetry](#input\_enable\_telemetry)

Description: This variable controls whether or not telemetry is enabled for the module.  
For more information see <https://aka.ms/avm/telemetryinfo>.  
If it is set to false, then no telemetry will be collected.

Type: `bool`

Default: `true`

### <a name="input_frontends"></a> [frontends](#input\_frontends)

Description: A map of frontends to create on the Application Gateway for Containers. Frontends expose an FQDN that can be used to route traffic.

- `name` - (Required) The name of the frontend.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    name = string
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_lock"></a> [lock](#input\_lock)

Description: Controls the Resource Lock configuration for this resource. The following properties can be specified:

- `kind` - (Required) The type of lock. Possible values are `"CanNotDelete"` and `"ReadOnly"`.
- `name` - (Optional) The name of the lock. If not specified, a name will be generated based on the `kind` value. Changing this forces the creation of a new resource.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    kind = string
    name = optional(string, null)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_retry"></a> [retry](#input\_retry)

Description: The retry configuration for azapi resources. The following properties can be specified:

- `error_message_regex` - (Required) A list of regular expressions to match against error messages. If any match, the request will be retried.
- `interval_seconds` - (Optional) The base number of seconds to wait between retries. Default is `10`.
- `max_interval_seconds` - (Optional) The maximum number of seconds to wait between retries. Default is `180`.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    error_message_regex  = optional(list(string), ["ScopeLocked"])
    interval_seconds     = optional(number, null)
    max_interval_seconds = optional(number, null)
  })
```

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_role_assignments"></a> [role\_assignments](#input\_role\_assignments)

Description: A map of role assignments to create on the resource. The map key is deliberately arbitrary to avoid issues where map keys maybe unknown at plan time.

- `role_definition_id_or_name` - The ID or name of the role definition to assign to the principal.
- `principal_id` - The ID of the principal to assign the role to.
- `description` - (Optional) The description of the role assignment.
- `skip_service_principal_aad_check` - (Optional) No effect when using AzAPI. Defaults to false.
- `condition` - (Optional) The condition which will be used to scope the role assignment.
- `condition_version` - (Optional) The version of the condition syntax. Leave as `null` if you are not using a condition, if you are then valid values are `2.0`.
- `delegated_managed_identity_resource_id` - (Optional) The delegated Azure Resource Id which contains a Managed Identity. Changing this forces a new resource to be created. This field is only used in cross-tenant scenario.
- `principal_type` - (Optional) The type of the `principal_id`. Possible values are `User`, `Group` and `ServicePrincipal`. It is necessary to explicitly set this attribute when creating role assignments if the principal creating the assignment is constrained by ABAC rules that filters on the PrincipalType attribute.

> Note: only set `skip_service_principal_aad_check` to true if you are assigning a role to a service principal.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    role_definition_id_or_name             = string
    principal_id                           = string
    description                            = optional(string, null)
    skip_service_principal_aad_check       = optional(bool, false)
    condition                              = optional(string, null)
    condition_version                      = optional(string, null)
    delegated_managed_identity_resource_id = optional(string, null)
    principal_type                         = optional(string, null)
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_security_policies"></a> [security\_policies](#input\_security\_policies)

Description: A map of security policies to create on the Application Gateway for Containers.

- `name` - (Required) The name of the security policy.
- `waf_policy_resource_id` - (Required) The resource ID of the WAF policy to associate with this security policy.

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    name                   = string
    waf_policy_resource_id = string
  }))
```

Default: `{}`

### <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags)

Description: (Optional) Tags of the resource.

Type: `map(string)`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_timeouts"></a> [timeouts](#input\_timeouts)

Description: The timeout configuration for azapi resources. The following properties can be specified:

- `create` - (Optional) The timeout for create operations e.g. `"30m"`, `"1h"`.
- `delete` - (Optional) The timeout for delete operations e.g. `"30m"`, `"1h"`.
- `read` - (Optional) The timeout for read operations e.g. `"30m"`, `"1h"`.
- `update` - (Optional) The timeout for update operations e.g. `"30m"`, `"1h"`.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    create = optional(string, null)
    delete = optional(string, null)
    read   = optional(string, null)
    update = optional(string, null)
  })
```

Default: `null`

## Outputs

The following outputs are exported:

### <a name="output_associations"></a> [associations](#output\_associations)

Description: The associations created on the Application Gateway for Containers.

### <a name="output_configuration_endpoints"></a> [configuration\_endpoints](#output\_configuration\_endpoints)

Description: The configuration endpoints of the Application Gateway for Containers.

### <a name="output_frontends"></a> [frontends](#output\_frontends)

Description: The frontends created on the Application Gateway for Containers.

### <a name="output_name"></a> [name](#output\_name)

Description: The name of the Application Gateway for Containers (Traffic Controller).

### <a name="output_resource"></a> [resource](#output\_resource)

Description: The Application Gateway for Containers (Traffic Controller) resource.

### <a name="output_resource_id"></a> [resource\_id](#output\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the Application Gateway for Containers (Traffic Controller).

### <a name="output_security_policies"></a> [security\_policies](#output\_security\_policies)

Description: The security policies created on the Application Gateway for Containers.

## Modules

The following Modules are called:

### <a name="module_avm_interfaces"></a> [avm\_interfaces](#module\_avm\_interfaces)

Source: Azure/avm-utl-interfaces/azure

Version: 0.6.0

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD041 -->
## Data Collection

The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described in the repository. There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft’s privacy statement. Our privacy statement is located at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704>. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and our privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->